- First Chapter (prologue) is Caide in his youth. Told in the POV of a new recruit, it shows him as a young, prodigious soldier for the Disavowed. He’s competent, and has a positive outlook. He works well with his team, and foreshadows what he’s supposed to do with the Smokesons. The recruit gets in danger but Caide saves him. “Remember this and do better. In the meantime, stay behind me and try not to die.”

- Caide hangs out with Dan in a teahouse. He’s stewing with his guilt over betraying Dan. Though I need to make this chapter a bit more interesting. The fight scene is crucial, of course, as it highlights the contrast between his current self and his past glory days. He does get by, however, by bluffing and being smart about his moves. In the end Dan gives him the last bit of help he needs by bluffing himself.

- On this chapter we see Caide “reaping” the rewards of his betrayal. He’s at Hira’s workshop, though I need to polish its start, specifically how Miero is characterized. Here we see Hira working on Caide’s supposed prosthetic arm. He tells Caide to get ready at the docks to secure the incoming cargo, due to the fact that mobbing has been on the rise due to food shortage. 

- Here we get Caide’s apology to Dan. He admits his betrayal and surprisingly, Dan forgives him. I like the state of this part on my current draft, I just need to polish the logic of the actual betrayal and why Caide did it. “I didn’t know what to do. This isn’t the kind of fight I usually…” “Of course. If only there was someone who’d know what to do in these situations. You know, someone who’s used to these kinds of scheming? You idiot.” “He told me they had you.”

- Last part of the chapter shows Caide at the docks, waiting for The Hundred Moons to arrive. The ship arrives late, rounding the bend of the Crescent river in the distance. As it closes in on the port, it is revealed that the ship is burning. I need to flesh this part out, I feel like on my current draft it is too rushed. Here Caide laughs humorlessly, and was ready to go ham when someone bunps into him. He stops himself and gathers the others 

- After he lost the jade needed for his arm, Caide is down on the dumps, naturally. Dan prods him more than usual as he recruits him to lead a team he’s assembling to fight the summer fires. Says he needs someone he can trust. “How can you still trust me?”  Damned guilt. A troublesome thing to be sure. Not so easily scrubbed off. “Can I admit something? Three thousand marks… it’s not entirely out of my means, you know? Difficult, sure, but not impossible. I… just chose not to.” Caide nodded. Of course. If anything, he deserved it. Why would Dan even risk himself for him? “Fair enough,” Caide said. “Too much of a risk. I wouldn’t either.” “No, listen, it’s not that. I just figured you’d want to leave when you got the arm. You know, go back to doing whatever two-handed business you were doing before we met? It’s selfish, really.” “Fortunately for you, I have nothing to go back to. I’m afraid you’re stuck with me forever.” Caide smiled at him, if you can call that a smile. “I see what you’re doing , Dan. But nothing will undo what I’ve done. And for what? A wreck at the bottom of the Crescent?” “Look, I’m not saying you’re entirely blameless. You did make the wrong choice. I’m just saying I’m not entirely blameless either. Doesn’t that count for something?” “I’m not counting for anything.” Dan tries another approach, a more “tough love” sort of thing. “Enough, damn you! I’ve been very patient with your bouts of dreariness, but we simply do not have the time right now. And besides, for someone claiming to be so torn up with guilt, I would’ve thought you’d jump at the chance to help me out. You know, instead of moping around being of no use to anyone? I need you, Caide. Can’t we just move past this? We can sort out who owes who after we survive this ordeal.” When Caide agrees, Dan asks him to find the hooded man that blackmailed him. This needs to be fleshed out too, on the circumstances of Caide’s blackmail.

- Caide and Dan meets some escaped prisoners in the middle of a forest at midnight. They take one to a deputy minister’s estate. I have to fix Sweet-tooth’s chapter, particularly the circumstances of how he’s going to join the Smokesons. This chapter is also a good way to explain what they’re doing (fighting the Summer Fires) so I should dwell on that. I think instead of Sweet-tooth’s mother dying, he should be forced to say goodbye to her so that his mother wouldn’t look for him. His father tells him of how he’s leaving him his inheritance early, if only he would disappear and never come back. He talks of preparing a house in faraway Silan, where he could live the rest of his life drinking and whoring. He gladly accepts, and leaves. As they move away from the estate, Dan reveals that there is no house in Silan, and that as soon as the ship he will board rounds the bend of the Crescent, he’ll be thrown overboard with rocks tied to his feet. Dan gives him an offer–he’ll take care of the sailors tasked to do this, and instead he works for him. He convinces him with the prospect of returning to his father a hero, with which he cannot deny him as heir, especially when the city acknowledges him. Sweet-tooth obliges.

- A bit of a timeskip here, maybe a week’s time. I plan to start at another failed firefighting attempt. Though I don’t want to spend too much screentime on this, and the reader should catch up if I do it right. Anyway, after failing a few times, discontent sweeps over the boys, wondering aloud what they were even doing. “I thought you at least had a plan.” Conflict arises between Batch and Caide as Batch expresses his displeasure with Caide’s supposed “laziness” and his refusal to participate in their firefighting activities. He avoids the conflict for now. 

- Scene break, after which we find Caide at Hira’s place again. He’s there to ask for something for burn salve, but also to get a break from the stresses of failure. He finds Miero under a tree, and he playfully sneaks up on him. The child snuck away from his chores to practice swordplay under a willow tree. Caide sympathizes with him, doing the same thing in his childhood. They talk about things, and the conversation steers to where Caide discovers that Miero is hearing his sword talk. He hears six voices. Caide is taken aback, but gathers himself and insists that Miero keeps this a secret. He then sets off to speak with Hira. Scene break again.

- Caide finds Hira lounging at her porch, drinking tea calmly. Caide is flustered, and is anxious at Miero’s situation. Hira remains infuriatingly calm about this, and reasons with Caide about the actual danger Miero’s in. Caide calms down and sees reason, and they talk about things. Conversation ends when Caide thinks up a way to be more effective in dealing with the summer fires. Scene break.

- We find Caide and the boys at an abandoned logging village early in the morning. He explains his idea to the boys and is met with indifference, doubt, and even spite from Batch. Caide has had enough. He challenges Batch to a duel, wagering his cooperation against setting him free if Caide loses. I guess here it’s better that they trade blows for a bit before Caide is forced to rely on Words instead of what happens in my earlier draft. I think this a good opportunity to see Caide needing his arm back. He can read Batch’s moves, but lacks the equipment to do anything about it. Backed into a corner, Caide is forced to rely on the Words. Being augmented by Judgment, Caide makes quick work of Batch. Chapter ends with Caide feeling the Cost of using the Words coming up, and insists that Batch yield.

- In this chapter, the reader is informed of Caide’s great successes with firefighting. So much so that saving houses had been a routine for them. Here we see the Smokesons dismantle the next house that was supposed to burn in order to save the rest. This is done with discipline and precision, even showing Batch’s cooperation. As they watch the “sacrifice” house burn down, they notice that Duck is missing. Caide seeks him out using the tracking bands he gave the smokesons that night at the forest. He senses Duck’s band in the house, and so he rushes in at tremendous risk to himself. He finds Duck pinned down by a collapsed pillar. He’s barely conscious, and this is where Caide’s handicap is emphasized. He couldn’t pull Duck free, nor lift the pillar. He is forced to draw his sword and resort to using the Words once again. He cuts Duck’s leg, as cutting the pillar might collapse everything above them. 

- At some point we go into Miero’s POV and we see him interact with Grin. “Hey Caide, this is my friend. He’s… now that I think of it, I don’t even know your name.” “My name doesn’t matter. Call me anything you like.” Caide’s hand flew to the hilt of his sword. He knew that voice. He turned and there he was, smiling politely. Grin. He would’ve looked friendly, pleasant even. If only he wasn’t the cause of all his problems. 

- Grin is subdued through a combination of teamwork, planning, and creativity. They spare him and send him to prison to serve as proof and for them to earn a reward for their efforts. [Need to flesh this out]

- When they present Grin to the King, they ask them what they want as reward. Caide has a decision to make: ask for the Smokesons’ pardons, or ask for jade that will complete his arm. He weighs it heavily, and decides to ask for the jade instead. Why? He hates how much their victory came down luck, and is determined that should the next powerful Sage appear, he could deal with it. He justifies that he, or maybe Dan, could work out another way to secure their pardons. 
- Caide won’t defeat Grin in single combat. They fight up to a point, with Grin holding back, until Caide is forced to give up his arm. As he gives up his arm, he loses control over Destiny. After he does, Grin looks pleased and refuses to fight anymore, saying that he’s accomplished what he set out to do for now.

- A faceless appears, and Grin tells Caide that right there is their real enemy. He sits down, saying that he won’t participate, that it’s their fight now. Caide tries to fight it alone, without much success. Grin ends up saving him, in fact. Caide is exhausted, beaten down, and loses hope. The faceless is about to strike him down when Sol nudges the metal studs on his clothing. Help has arrived.

- The team execute their plan (originally for Grin,) and fights as a team against the faceless. They take it down, but four more appear, and one of them looks particularly nasty. Grin is genuinely surprised, even fearful. He gets up and tells Caide and the others to deal with the small fry while he faces off against the strong looking one. As the fight happens, Seyla wanders blindly into the fray.