- On his first POV chapter, Dan seems like a man of humble station, friendly with the servants, easily approached. Just the Cardinal’s steward. Midway through it’s revealed in a “small council meeting” with the four lieutenants that he’s calling the shots. They discuss the Cardinal’s upcoming name-day, and the “housewarming party” of the newly-constructed manor at Canopy Hill. 

- Gets exiled by the second POV chapter, preferably.

- In the third chapter, he’s assessing himself and his capability, and gathering allies

- What’s the next logical step to this? He’s formed the team. They’re having struggles, sure, but that’s nothing he could help with atm. That’s Caide’s problem now. What could challenge him at this point? **He’ll be investigating Abaya, of course. To know why he wanted Dan gone.**

- After he lost the jade needed for his arm, Caide is down on the dumps, naturally. Dan prods him more than usual as he recruits him to lead a team he’s assembling to fight the summer fires. Says he needs someone he can trust. “How can you still trust me?”  Damned guilt. A troublesome thing to be sure. Not so easily scrubbed off. “Can I admit something? Three thousand marks… it’s not entirely out of my means, you know? Difficult, sure, but not impossible. I… just chose not to.” Caide nodded. Of course. If anything, he deserved it. Why would Dan even risk himself for him? “Fair enough,” Caide said. “Too much of a risk. I wouldn’t either.” “No, listen, it’s not that. I just figured you’d want to leave when you got the arm. You know, go back to doing whatever two-handed business you were doing before we met? It’s selfish, really.” “Fortunately for you, I have nothing to go back to. I’m afraid you’re stuck with me forever.” Caide smiled at him, if you can call that a smile. “I see what you’re doing , Dan. But nothing will undo what I’ve done. And for what? A wreck at the bottom of the Crescent?” “Look, I’m not saying you’re entirely blameless. You did make the wrong choice. I’m just saying I’m not entirely blameless either. Doesn’t that count for something?” “I’m not counting for anything.” Dan tries another approach, a more “tough love” sort of thing. “Enough, damn you! Normally I’d be patient with your bouts of dreariness, but we simply do not have the time right now. And besides, for someone claiming to be so torn up with guilt, I would’ve thought you’d jump at the chance to help me out. You know, instead of moping around being of no use to anyone? I need you, Caide. Let’s move past this for now. We can sort out who owes who after we survive this ordeal.” When Caide agrees, Dan asks him to lead his band of prisoners to fight the summer fires. “No one will thank you for this, might even put you on the path of rocks thrown. But it is something that must be done.” Caide scoffed. “Must be done, eh? I’ve been killing myself over things that must be done all my life. What’s one more?”

- His fourth chapter is where he executes Lady Tahede’s favor, as well as abducting Sayin Abaya all in one swoop. In this chapter Batch also talks to him regarding his “secret job” on Caide. Here Abaya admits that he doesn’t know, that it was just left on his desk one day. I need a conflict for Dan here. One thing that comes to mind is that he needs to extract information from Abaya. 
- The chapter opens with Dan consoling the distraught courtesan. She thought she killed a man. First he builds rapport with the courtesan by describing Lady Tahede bluntly. It kinda works, and the courtesan can’t help but trust him. Basically he asks the courtesan to take him through what happened, while thinking about what *really* happened, and revealing to the reader (subtly, tastefully) that this was all his doing. He’s setting the courtesan up to continue working for the garden by pinning unfounded guilt on her. Scene ends with the courtesan thanking him. (This could be better)
- Next scene we see Dan outside a run-down outhouse. He talks to Caide and asks him to remember him at his best, and for tonight’s activities to not poison his image of him. Dan thinks about how he needs Caide, and the others, to see him doing something, getting his hands dirty. 
- As Caide goes in and primes Abaya(really need to come up with a better name), Batch determinedly approaches him. He requests to be put off from his task, since he isn’t willing to do it anymore. Dan asks why. He says he believes in Caide, and doesn’t want to stand in his way anymore. Dan smiles to himself, and agrees. He proceed like it’s a negotiation. (What use do I have for you now?) Batch argues. (Don’t you want him to succeed?) Then proceeds to pledge his loyalty and cooperation. Dan asks him to protect Caide.
- Inside the outhouse, Abaya is strapped down to a chair. Dan interrogates him. He breaks a finger, and then emphasizes how he has more joints he could work with, and that’s just the beginning. When Abaya doesn’t respond to physical pain, he threatens her young daughter. He extracts information from him, but hits a dead end when he swears he doesn’t know the hooded man, even when Dan almost breaks him.
- Things look like they’re going well at Caide’s end. They developed a system on how to kill fires and all the good stuff. While spending some time with his favorite courtesan, Dan figures that Caide might be a Sage. On the way home, Dan encounters the Smokesons, newly drunk after a day of firefighting. On the way back to the Fool’s Mug, they were attacked by an unknown individual…

- After Caide gets whooped by Grin, Dan visits him in recovery. Caide explains that he’s a Sage, and how extraordinarily powerful Grin is. Dan takes all this information in, and ruminates on the repercussions. He comes up with a plan to ask the most powerful Sage in Meroun for help.

- Dan is refused at the gates of Iraga estate. Caide steps in, says a weird phrase to the servant and a few mins later they’re let in. Strange.

- Inside the manor, Tahan Iraga is outright hostile with Dan. Rude and abrasive, he seems to hate everything Dan stands for. Says he reminds him of all the slimy ministers with their schemes and subtext. “All this skirting around… Can’t just say one thing and mean it, no. Lies upon lies,” he says. Again, Caide steps in, leaning on his past as a soldier, and smooth talks Tahan Iraga in his own way. Everything seems to go well until Tahan Iraga lays down his condition–that Caide beat him in a fight.

- Outside at the courtyard, Dan sits down ringside with Sol Iraga, Tahan’s son. He assesses the man, and with information gleaned from his informant at the household, he psy-ops Sol with taffy. He thinks he could make a useful ally if Dan could separate him from his father’s shadow. All this while the battle goes on in the background. In the end, Caide goes ham when Tahan threatens Dan, and the fight ends up in a tie. Tahan doesn’t help them, as they didn’t meet his condition, but sends his son in his stead. Says he’s better equipped for this kind of task anyway.

- Now from Sol’s POV, either he’s travelling to Dan’s place and being shocked by the state of the city outside his nice, perfect little corner of the world. He sees poverty and what the Summer Fires are doing to the people. Shattered world view, with the added benefit of updating the reader on the state of the world. He and his honor guard meet with Caide and Dan. No Smokesons yet, they frown at Sol when as he enters the Fool’s Mug. They’re here discuss taking down Grin. What does this entail? Hmm, I think this is too slow. I’d rather skip to around the middle of their training. Either they start in the middle of a sparring session, but I’m wary of chaining fight scenes together. Maybe I could just “tell” about this, like a memory, like they’ve sparred before. What would be the point of this POV? I think the important part is showing the state of the city, in a way that is character building. What else? Something about explaining the magic system. Also something to show them working together. At some point they agree that they need more Sages. Sol and on in his crew is a Sage, though a weak one, only capable of minor invocations. Caide calls in the Smokesons and gives them a “Sage Test.” I was thinking a stone thingy with the Sixword carving that whispers to people when they put their fist around it. Who might be the potential Sages? Crow and Jule are sure to have. Not Sweet Tooth, nor Duck, nor Lon. Unsure about Batch and Pao. Dan is taking notes about how all this is going down. For Caide, his whisper goes like “Protect, and you will ruin.” His hiyang is Break and Endure. For Sol, it’s something like “Command, and they will follow” or whatever, just to show that his hiyang is destiny.  At some point they discuss the cost, and Caide says they don’t normally speak of it among Sages, and it’s quite rude to ask. But he says it anyway, as a form of goodwill.









- Somewhere down the line, Dan needs to keep his men safe from Grin’s eventual escape. He gets the Smokesons arrested and sent to Sadampo for a while. He also needs something to distract Sol and his honor guard, something that will take them out of the city. He organizes a party at Canopy Hill to honor Terio’s recognition as the city’s savior.